#  Self-Assessment

<p> My role for this project started deciding which technologies we would be using and representing that information on our repository.  Very thankful to my team for allowing me to have a smaller beginning role as I was in Hawaii for the first 3 classes of our group project.  As a result, I then took on the role of creating the data analysis and visualization for the presentation and the main format of the google slides.  We had limited time to talk about all the data, so we tried to gear the flow to move from potential considerations limiting from point A to the machine learning result.  Using Tableau, I was able to take the data files and create visuals and statistics to present and include for the slides and for the team to use.  I was able to assist with dashboard and GitHub functions to relieve other duties.</p> 
<p>The hardest part of the role for me was narrowing down what data to present.  It was challenging to find the correct way to show the data, what to omit and how to create a story that makes sense for our project.  So much information was left behind, yet our dataset was limited in nature.  The amount of time it took to accurately create the data story was quite challenging and required a lot of extra time to be reallocated to the project.</p> 

#  Team Assessment

<p> Everyone was engaged, helpful and overwhelmingly supportive of times when things may have gotten difficult.  We were able to effectively communicate via Slack, class sessions and additional zoom meeting.  
Our downfall was developed once we locked into our separate designate portions of the project.  It was essentially divided up into, Machine learning model, database formation, tableau dashboard and the data analysis.  As the person in charge of the visualization and data depictions I found that our communication as to what goals we were hoping to achieve started to decline.  A lot of our time towards the end of the project, when putting all the parts together had a lot of redundancies and repeated information that could have been prevented and proved time consuming to polish.</p>  
<p> My one disappointment would be that we just didn’t have enough time to present all the information our analysis uncovered for our story of the Titanic.  The data so closely followed all the depictions I have seen in movies and documentaries and was very pleasing to have the results so closely represented.  I would have had us change direction with our dataset next time to follow the project idea more closely and would recommend putting all the parameters together in the presentation much sooner than required.</p>

#  Summary of Project 

<p> Our project analyzed data for the sinking of Titanic. Why did the ship sink? What happened to all rescue boats? What decisions were made when boarding the rescue rafts?  Many factors may have been decided on who boarded the rescue crafts, but one factor was the ultimate decision maker.  Our Gradient Blasting Booster model confirmed that number one factor involved was the gender of the passenger, mainly female, closely followed by young children 9 an under.  With only a mere minute to decide how to rescue everyone on board, several errors were made and cost the lives of passengers on board.  Many of the life rafts were not filled completely because of class issues but for those that did were mostly female.</p>
